Gratuitous arguments for CFJ 7
Submitted by Aris on 25 Mar 2020 03:27:41 

This CFJ is, at it's core, remarkably simple. Rule 112 stated that
"The state of affairs that constitutes winning may not be altered from
achieving n points to any other state of affairs." This prohibition
applies to alterations that would change the "the state of affairs
that constitutes winning" "from achieving n points to any other state
of affairs". I see two ways to read this. One reading says that any
change that would create any other method of winning than "achieving n
points" is prohibited. Another says that only changes that would both
remove "achieving n points" as a winning condition and establish "any
other state of affairs" as a winning condition are prohibited.
However, the court should not reach this question.

Fundamentally, according to its text, Rule 112 prohibits certain
changes in Agoran law. It thus cannot be read to apply to anything
that happened before it entered into force; only changes that came
after it can be affected. However, all indications suggest that the
initial ruleset entered into force all at once as a coherent whole. To
rule otherwise would be to suggest that some of the initial rules were
created before others. This is deeply disturbing. If Rule 101 was
created before Rule 102, Rule 102 would have to have been either
created by Rule 101 or inserted by some higher power, a power with the
authority to insert rule changes after the game had begun without the
rules saying so.

However, the initial rules themselves provide an answer to this
problem. Rule 101 provided explicitly that "The rules in the Initial
Set are in effect at the beginning of the first game. The Initial Set
consists of rules 101-116 (immutable) and 201-219 (mutable)." This
solves the problem. All of the rules of the initial set were already
in effect, as of the moment that the game came into existence. No
higher power was needed to insert the rules after the fact.

I accept that if Rule 112 conflicted with Rule 219, Rule 111 would
have overridden Rule 219 and stripped it of legal force. However, a
problem could only have happened if Rule 219 had somehow either
initiated a change contravening Rule 112 or been created as a result
of such a change (in the later case, Rule 219 would presumably just
not exist, its creation having been blocked by Rule 112). This did not
happen; per Rule 101, all of the rules were in force as of the time
the game began. Thus, when the game began and Rule 112 began blocking
changes to the state of affairs that constituted winning, any such
change had already happened.

At the beginning of these arguments I said this case was simple, and
for all the verbiage I've put into it, it really is. Once one realizes
that all the rules came into effect at the same time, all born seeing
the others as peers rather than newcomers, the result follows. CFJ 7
should be judged FALSE.

Respectfully submitted,
Aris 